[Previous](../../Introduction.md) || [Index](../../index.md) || [Next](Strain.md)

### Displacement

Displacement is a fundamental concept that
is used to describe the change in position
of a point or an object relative to a
reference point or origin.  It is used in
physics, engineering and other fields.  It
is often used in the study of mechanics,
which is concerned with the motion of
objects and the forces that act upon them. 
In engineering, it is used to describe the
deformation of structures and the behaviour
of waves and vibrations.  In civil
engineering, displacement is used to
describe the deformation of structures under
load, such as bridges and buildings.  In the
case of the study of waves and vibrations,
displacement refers to the distance between
the rest position and the position of a
particle or object that is vibrating or
oscillating.  This displacement can be
described using a number of different
parameters, including amplitude, frequency,
and wavelength.

Engineers use displacement measurements to
determine the level of stress and strain on
a structure, which can help them to design
stronger, more resilient structures. 
Displacement can be measured in three
dimensions, and it is typically denoted by
the symbol "u".

It is a vector quantity, which means that it
has both magnitude and direction.  The
magnitude of displacement is given by the
distance between the final and initial
positions of the object, while the direction
is given by the line connecting these two
points.

[Previous](../../Introduction.md) || [Index](../../index.md) || [Next](Strain.md)
